Welcome to “Commercial Tools for Data Science.” After watching this video, you will be able
to: List the commercial data management tools, List the commercial data integration and transformation tools List the data visualization tools List the model tools for building, deployment,
monitoring, and assessment, and List tools for code asset management, data
asset management, development environment, and fully integrated visual. Let’s revisit the overview of different tool categories. In data management, most of an enterprise’s
relevant data is stored in an Oracle Database, in Microsoft SQL Server, or an IBM Db2. Although open-source databases are coming
to the forefront, these three data management products are considered industry-standard
and will be around for a while. In addition, it’s not only about functionality. Since data is the heart of every organization,
commercial support availability plays a major role. Commercial supports are delivered directly
from software vendors, influential partners, and support networks. Let’s start with commercial data integration
tools that comprise extract, transform, and load (ETL) tools. According to a Gartner Magic Quadrant, Informatica
PowerCenter and IBM InfoSphere DataStage are the leaders. These are followed by SAP, Oracle, SAS, Talend,
and Microsoft products. These tools support the design and deployment
of ETL data processing pipelines through a graphical interface. They bring along connectors to most of the
commercial and open-source target information systems. Finally, Watson Studio Desktop includes a
component called Data Refinery, which enables definition and execution of data integration
processes in a spreadsheet-style. In the commercial environment, data visualizations
use business intelligence (BI) tools. The focus of these tools is to create visual
reports and live dashboards. The most prominent commercial representatives
are: Tableau, Microsoft Power BI, and IBM Cognos
Analytics. Another type of visualization targets data
scientists rather than end users. For example, the visualization can show relationships
between different columns in a table. This functionality is contained in Watson
Studio Desktop. If you want to build a machine learning model
with a commercial tool, you should use a data mining product. The most prominent products in that space
are: SPSS Modeler and SAS enterprise miner. In addition, SPSS Modeler is also available
in Watson Studio Desktop, based on the tool’s cloud version. Now, Model deployment in commercial software
is tightly integrated into the model-building process. Here is an example of the SPSS Collaboration
and Deployment Services, which is used to deploy any type of asset created by the SPSS
software tools suite. The same holds for other vendors. Also, commercial software can export models
in an open format. For example, SPSS Modeler supports exporting
models as predictive model markup language (PMML), which an abundance of other commercial
and open software packages can read. Model monitoring is a very new discipline. Currently, relevant commercial tools are not
available. Therefore, open source is the first choice. The same is true for code asset management. Open source with Git and GitHub is the
de facto standard. Data asset management, often called data governance
or data lineage, is a crucial part of enterprise-grade data science. Data must be versioned and annotated with
metadata. Vendors, including Informatica Enterprise
Data Governance and IBM, provides tools for these specific
tasks. The Information Governance Catalog covers
functions like a data dictionary, which facilitates the discovery of data assets. Each data asset is assigned to a data steward
or the data owner. The data owner is responsible for that data
asset and can be contacted. Then, data lineage is covered, allowing tracking
back the transformation steps in creating the data assets. The data lineage also includes a reference
to the actual source data. Rules and policies can be added to reflect
complex regulatory and business requirements for data privacy and retention. Watson Studio is a fully integrated development
environment for data scientists. Most people consume it through the cloud. And there is also a desktop version available. Watson Studio Desktop combines Jupyter Notebooks
with graphical tools to maximize the performance of data scientists. Watson Studio, together with Watson Open Scale,
is a fully integrated tool covering the data science life cycle involving all tasks discussed
previously. They can be deployed in a local data center,
on top of Kubernetes / RedHat OpenShift. Another example of a fully integrated commercial
tool is H2O Driverless AI, which covers the complete
data science life cycle. In this video, you learned that:
Commercial tools support the most common tasks in data science. Data management tools are Oracle Database,
Microsoft SQL Server, and IBM Db2. Data integration tools are mainly provided by
Informatica PowerCenter and IBM InfoSphere DataStage. These are followed by products from SAP, Oracle,
SAS, Talend, Microsoft, and Watson Studio Desktop. Model building tools are SPSS Modeler, and
SAS enterprise miner. SPSS Modeler is also available in Watson Studio
Desktop. Informatica and IBM provide data asset management
tools. And finally, Watson Studio, together with Watson Open Scale
is a fully integrated tool covering the data science life cycle.