Welcome to “Sharing Enterprise
Data – Data Asset eXchange” After watching this video, you will be able to: Navigate around IBM's open data
repository, the Data Asset eXchange. Explore open data sets on the Data Asset eXchange. Identify the notebook associated
with a data set in Watson Studio. There are many open data sets available
to the public, but it can be difficult to find data sets that are both high quality and
have clearly defined license and usage terms. To help solve this challenge, IBM created
the Data Asset eXchange, or "DAX”. DAX provides a curated
collection of open data sets, both from IBM Research and
trusted third-party sources. These data sets are ready for
use in enterprise applications, with a wide variety of application types,
including images, video, text, and audio. DAX aims to foster data sharing
and collaboration by keeping data sets available under a Community
Data License Agreement (or CDLA). DAX makes it easier for developers to get started
with data sets because it provides a single place to access unique, high-quality data sets
from trusted sources like IBM Research. It also provides tutorial notebooks that
walk through the basics of data cleaning, pre-processing, and exploratory analysis. Certain data sets include advanced notebooks that
explain how to perform more complex tasks, like creating charts, training machine-learning models,
integrating deep learning via the Model Asset eXchange, and running statistical
analysis and time-series analysis. The Data Asset eXchange and the Model
Asset eXchange are both available on the IBM Developer website. With these resources, developers can create
end-to-end analytic and machine learning workflows and to consume open data and models with
confidence under clearly defined license terms. Now, let’s explore the Data Asset eXchange. Open https://developer.ibm.com/ in your web
browser. Then select “Open Source at IBM” From the drop-down, select “Data Asset eXchange”. In the Data Asset eXchange, multiple open data sets are
available for you to explore. Let’s say you’ve found a data set
that might be very interesting to you: the “NOAA Weather Data - JFK Airport” data set, which contains data from a weather station
at the John F. Kennedy Airport in New York. On this data set page, you can click Get this data set to download the
NOAA data set from the cloud storage. Run data set notebooks to access the notebooks
associated with the data set in Watson. and Preview the data and Notebooks to explore
DAX metadata, glossary and the notebook. Most data sets on DAX are
complemented by one or more Notebooks. Click assets to view all the Jupyter
Notebooks and data available. You can then click the source code to view all
the notebooks associated with your NOAA project. You can execute all the notebooks in
Watson studio to perform data cleaning, pre-processing, and exploratory analysis. If you are already familiar with opening the
notebooks in Watson studio, you can log into your IBM Cloud account, create a project,
and load all the notebooks into the project. Data sets on DAX also consist
of one or more data files. Click the Data option to view the
data files, available in your project. In this video, you learned that the IBM Data Asset eXchange (DAX) site
contains high-quality open data sets DAX open data sets include tutorial notebooks that provide basic and advanced
walk throughs for developers. DAX and MAX are available on
the IBM Developer website. You can get, run, and preview
data sets and notebooks on DAX, and DAX notebooks are opened in Watson Studio.